The Joe Rogan experience. And you're coming back from another crazy trip, right?
I am indeed. What is that nonsense that you did on a kayak?
What did you do?
So, uh, after I got back from the impossible first,
the Antarctica crossing rider, by the time I saw you last year, um,
I got a funny phone call actually of all things creep were asked me, you know,
what's the next expedition going to be? What are you going to do? And I said,
you know, I just walked 54 days by myself across Antarctica. Gimme,
gimme a minute, give me a minute to, uh, relax. And, uh,
I got a phone call via a buddy of mine from college, connects me to this, uh,
this guy, uh,
this Icelandic I've never met him before his name's pheon Paul don't know his
story. I do now he's an absolute legend. Um, and he says, Hey man,
you were just an Antarctica. Right. And I was like, yeah. And he's like,
I think we should go back to Antarctica. And I was like, all right, well,
what do you think? And he's like in a rowboat,
I think we should row a boat from the Southern tip of south America to the
peninsula of Antarctica across Drake passage. How far is that?
About 700 miles.
And see what that looks like on a map.
Um, and I said, please delete my phone.
700 Miles rowing a boat.
Uh, yeah. So Drake passage is known to be, um, you know, in seafaring,
one of the most treacherous,
if not the most treacherous kind of passageway in the world, you know,
you've gotten, you know,
the Atlantic and the Pacific and the Southern ocean kind of all converging
between the Antarctic peninsula and the Southern tip of south America.
So you got 40 foot swells,
you got crazy waves icebergs as you get close to Antarctica. Um, and the, uh,
the mission or the goal was to see if we could, uh, there it is right there.
That's it? That whole area, that whole area right there from there to there, um,
all the way down. Yeah, the main, the main peninsula TheraBand. So ultimately,
uh, it took us just less than two weeks to do the entire row,
but it was a long journey.
And the planning from that phone call all the way through to that year,
but it was a, it was a two week or 12, 12 day crossing.
So in the two weeks you had to have two weeks worth of food,
two weeks worth of drinking water.
Yeah. So, well, water, actually, we have a decelerator. So off of, um, off of,
uh, solar panels, everything's, you know, solar there's no engine, no sale,
nothing like that. It's just completely human powered, rowing.
A portable desalinater. Yeah. How big is it?
Um, it fits inside one of the tiny looks, so the boat's tiny, the boats,
like 20, 25 feet long,
three guys running at a time for six of us total in the team, ultimately, um,
you know, barely anywhere to sleep in this tiny little compartments,
like the size of like, you know, sleeping in the back of a, you know,
hatchback of a Honda civic or something like that. Um, but, uh,
but yeah, so you've got this assassinator,
that's basically kind of in one of the central compartment.
So it was probably like, I dunno, maybe two feet by two feet square,
something like that. Um, and mean it doesn't, it doesn't make a water real fast.
You can make 10 liters of water in like, you know, an hour or two,
depending on the
[inaudible], but I mean, it gets it done. Yeah. It gets it done. Does it taste.
Well? What are the water tastes like?
It was weird as we got closer to Antarctica,
I think it started messing up because it got real salty.
Like it wasn't doing quite as good of a job.
The water near Antarctica was like one degree Celsius. So 33 Fahrenheit,
practically frozen cold water.
And I think that was kind of starting to tweak out the system. Um, but uh,
drinking salt water as we got closer, it was like, it was still potable,
but it was like this isn't working as well, but early on, I mean,
it worked just fine. Like, it was pretty much, you know, cold,
cold drinking water, like bottled water. Yeah, exactly.
But then does it only do it for a certain amount of time?
Does the filter get filled up or anything? Um, it worked for the entire, uh,
12 days that we were out there there's guys who have gone on longer, you know,
rowing exhibitions across the Pacific or the Atlantic or longer stretches of
ocean, um, that, you know, works the entire time. Um,
but it is one of the things that dead breaks down. So we had extra spare parts.
Fortunately, we don't have to use any of that, but, um, but yeah, no, we had a,
it worked and then, yeah,
of course we had to bring food for the entire time as well, um, on, on there.
So that was a key part of it. How much food? So there were six of us,
like I said, um, pretty much all the compartments were full. Um, you know,
there's tiny little compartments, but basically ate two things. So we, uh,
we had freeze dried meals, so like mountain house, free stride meals. And we,
this little jet boil that we were kind of as crazy as the water's like it's 40,
you know, 40 foot waves are bouncing around on this,
trying to hold a jet boil to try to boil some water. It was pretty tough, but,
um, some close calls with that, but we also, um, had these bars.
So last time I think we talked about last time I was on here,
I had these kind of custom nutrition bars that were made. Um,
and so that worked really well for me in the Antarctica crossing,
we had done all this kind of blood work. Explain that again, like how you made,
how those made. Yeah. So, um, when I was doing my Antarctica crossing,
one of the kind of challenges is basically, can you take enough food with you?
Cause what I was doing was called unsupported, so no resupplies of food or fuel,
you know, crossing the land mass of Antarctica 54 days.
And so I wanted to get like the most optimized nutrition. Um,
and so I worked with this company called standard process was all like a whole
food supplement company. And they've got all these sort of doctors, um,
food scientists and this,
and I went in their lab for a year and they did all this kind of custom blood
work on my body. I'm trying to figure out, you know,
basically my exact sort of physiology.
And they created these bars based on all of the research that they did, um,
that based where these really high calorie bars,
cause it was the most high calories that I needed to optimize space. Um,
and they were kind of, they were all,
they're all plant-based and ended up and then I know there's, you know,
what's in them again, you know, coconut oil, nuts seeds, you know, sort of, uh,
different phytonutrients and a particular macronutrient blend that I needed.
It was about 45% fat cause I needed the high fat, um, about 40% protein.
Um, and then 15 tomorrow what's the math on that, uh, 15%, uh, carps.
Um, and so, uh, excuse me, sorry.
I re alternated the protein carb quotient there, but, um, but yeah,
it worked really well for that. And so when I was doing the row,
I called up Santa process again, they've been an amazing partner of mine.
And they were like, were like, Hey, I'm doing this row. Um,
those bars weren't so good last time. And like I just said with, you know,
trying to boil water and you know,
all this stuff is really challenging on the robot.
The best would be to have this really kind of high optimized nutrition that we
could use again for the project like this. But the parameters are different.
You know, the humidity is different, the temperature is different.
There's six of us now. There's not just one me, you know,
can we optimize it for that? So they kind of made a specialty blend, um,
of the bars again. Um, but they've called the column bars.
They'd probably come up with a better name. Um, but it worked really well,
those online anymore, they're, they're not for sale. Um,
we've talked about doing that. So maybe in the future, but, uh, you can,
you can see online on their website,
like all the different supplements and stuff that went into it.
So you can kind of buy the component parts, but yeah, one day we might,
we might make them, but they've been kind of just custom for these two projects,
but they've worked really, really well, particularly in the rowing. So, I mean,
they worked amazing in the Antarctic crossing as well, but in the rowing,
it was 90 minutes of rowing on 90 minutes of rowing off continuous 24 hours a
day. So there's, we're kind of in two sets of three, six of us,
total three people rowing three people resting.
And in that 90 minutes that you're off. That's also when you got to, you know,
eat, drink, sleep, it's your only time to rest basically.
And so as much time as you can kind of optimize eating and stuff meant more
sleeping. And so to have these bars get done with a 90 minute rowing shift,
be able to eat, you know, a thousand calorie bar, highest, you know,
quality nutrition in your body. Um, I mean, standard process. Nailed it again.
It was amazing to, you know,
have these bars and have it work really well for all of us to kind of optimize,
not just the food,
but also the efficiency of sleep because the sleep got crazy out there.
Like you can imagine. Yeah.
So you basically sleeping every 90 minutes for one
hour.
Yeah, exactly. Ish. Like if you can get it and like when,
once the swell start cranking up, like you're in this tiny compartment, like,
I don't know if we could pull up a picture of the boat for a visual or some on
my Instagram, I'm not covered like really not covered at all.
Like so well there's covered in the tiny compartment.
So the rowing part's not covered at all.
So when you're rowing waves are splashing up, like over top of you, I mean,
you're getting completely soaked. Like you're getting, you know,
complete snug the entire time. And then the tiny compartment, you know,
it's like, it's like lower than this table.
Like you'd be like kinda crouched down, like in there. Um, yeah.
So that is the robot right here. So that's us. So.
That's the floor. Is that where all.
The food is stored underneath the underneath there's compartments.
So you can see that tiny little kind of compartment on either side,
one smaller one's bigger than the back ones with sleep. That's where we'd sleep.
Well, the bigger one has the waves, just like the bleeds that there's 12 people,
three, no six people, six people, but still, um,
so you got three people in the three people rowing in three people and then
compartments, anytime I'm thinking, if you kind of scroll up to the top,
maybe there's one, I'm just, it shows like the whole boat, um,
or like what it looks like. Maybe there there's kind of a shot of it. Um,
so yeah, so you can see in there, like the back little compartment,
that's where I was. Um,
I was alternating with this guy pheon who I mentioned the Icelandic guy who was
the captain, the boat really experienced ocean rower. Um,
and we alternated inside this little cabin and then the other four guys,
they alternate two people cause that one's a little bit bigger in the front.
That's the bow cabin in the front, but they're like,
you're like head to toe in there or you're crouched into a little ball.
It's not, it's not glamorous at all.
These guys at all four. He.
Did this. So, uh, not really, uh, not really, uh, yeah,
it was a deep dive into the team. And after doing something solo,
I was pretty excited to do something, you know,
as a team and doing something in a completely, you know,
exploring a completely different kind of avenue of exploration, the ocean,
something I'd never done before. And I had actually,
not only did I not know these guys, um, a couple of them went to college with,
but we like really loosely knew each other.
Like I kind of like maybe like a recognize their face a little bit,
but it didn't, we weren't like good friends or anything like that.
Three of them I'd never met in my entire life. Um,
and I had also have never wrote a boat in my life ever before.
Um, and so when pheon, uh, he called me up and told me about the project,
he's the one who most world's most renowned ocean rowers. He's got, you know,
30 world records or something like that. Um,
complete legend he's rode boats across every single ocean.
And this was like the kind of a last, you know,
big ocean that he'd never crossed, no one, you know,
no one had ever done it just like this before. And so he kind of said, Hey,
I wanted this idea, but the logistics are super complicated.
Like going in Antarctica is all this sort of like treaties that you need all
this paperwork, getting a boat down to south America,
importing it through the Panama canal, et cetera. I mean,
it's like a tough thing. And he'd been like,
kind of thinking about it for a year or so. And he, he said like, Hey,
I've seen you pull off some big projects together. Can we kind of team up?
And I know, you know,
your team has got really good at figuring out these logistics,
would you be interested? And I'd actually looked at ocean rowing. Um,
a couple of years ago was something that I always wanted to do one day.
And so it was kind of, uh, after I kind of got that first phone call,
like I said, like kinda like, dude, I just got back from Antarctica.
I don't want to go back tomorrow. Uh, but you know,
of course the curiosity inside of we got the best of me and I called them back
up and I said, Hey, let's do this. What are you thinking?
And kind of dove into it. Um, from there kind of my,
my team kind of wrapped our arms around the sort of like logistic and building
out the project. And he was definitely the visionary of, um,
something he dreamed up and it was super cool to team up with him after doing
something alone.